In the previous video,
we introduced temporal
difference learning.
TD elegantly combines
key ideas from
dynamic programming and
Monte Carlo methods.
Like dynamic programming,
TD methods bootstrap.
Like Monte Carlo methods,
TD can learn directly
from experience.
The combination is more
powerful than the sum
of its parts.
By the end of this video,
you will be able to understand
the benefits of
learning online with
TD and identify key advantages
of TD methods over dynamic
programming and Monte Carlo.
Let's consider the example
of driving home from work.
Each day, you predict how long
it will take to get home.
You base your
predictions on the time,
the day of the week,
the weather, and other factors.
Imagine that you have driven
home many times before.
You have a good estimate of
how long it takes to get home
from various situations you
might encounter on the way.
Let's look at these estimates
for one trip home.
One evening, as you
leave the office,
you predict it'll take
30 minutes to get home.
In about five minutes,
you exit the parking lot and
notice that it is raining.
Traffic is slower in the rain.
So you estimate that it will take
35 minutes then on to get home.
Fifteen minutes later,
you exit the highway
earlier than you
anticipated and estimate that it
will now take you
15 minutes to get home.
Thirty minutes in your journey,
you get stuck behind
a slow truck and predict
that it will take you an
additional 10 minutes
to get home.
Ten minutes later, you
enter the home street from
where it usually takes
three minutes to arrive home.
While in three minutes
later, you are home.
So the numbers in
the circles represent
our predictions of
remaining driving time,
how can we improve
these predictions?
To understand how to
update our predictions,
we need to specify the reward.
Let's use the amount
of time taken.
It took you five minutes
to exit the parking lot.
We can label this transition
with a reward of five.
It took you another 15 minutes
to exit the highway,
and so on and so forth.
You predicted that
it would take you
30 minutes to get home,
but it actually took
you 43 minutes.
Perhaps you can learn
from this experience.
Let's first look at a
Monte Carlo method.
In particular, we will use
the constant alpha
Monte Carlo method
with alpha equal to one.
In Monte Carlo methods,
you update your estimates
towards the return which
is only available at
the end of the episode.
We can only update
the estimates for each
of the states once
we arrive home.
We can start from when
we leave the office.
From the office, it took you
a total of 43 minutes
to get home.
Therefore, the return
at time zero is 43.
As alpha is one,
we move our estimate completely
towards the actual return.
From when you exit
the parking lot,
it took you 38 minutes
to get home,
and we update
our estimate accordingly.
We update the estimates for
the remaining states
in the same way.
But is it really
necessary to wait until
the final outcome is known
before learning can begin?
Let's rewind
the clock and look at
how we would make
updates with TD.
From the office, it took
you five minutes to exit
the parking lot from where you
made a prediction of 35 minutes.
From the exit state,
you can update
the estimate for office.
Your current estimate from
the office is 30 minutes.
You get a reward of five.
The value of
the next state is 35,
so we update our estimate
to 40 minutes.
Let's consider the next state.
Your current estimate
is 35 minutes.
It took you 15 minutes from
the parking lot to
exit the highway.
The estimated time to
get home from when you
exit the highway is
also 15 minutes.
So we reduce the estimated
time to go from when
we exit the parking lot
to 30 minutes.
This makes sense because we
exited the highway
earlier than expected.
We similarly update the estimates
for the remaining states.
As we make our way home,
we can learn online
without waiting to know
the final outcome,
unlike Monte Carlo.
Let's summarize
the advantages of using TD.
Unlike dynamic programming,
TD methods do not require
a model of the environment.
They can learn directly
from experience.
Unlike Monte Carlo, TD
can update the values
on every step.
Bootstrapping allows us to update
the estimates based
on other estimates.
TD asymptotically converges
to the correct predictions.
In addition, TD methods usually
converge faster than
Monte Carlo methods.
We will see an example of
this in the next video.